oh hi it's me I just can't do that
convincingly anyway so today we're gonna
be talking more about implementation
inheritance and in particular we're
gonna start with the keyword extends
we're gonna see ourselves growing and
power as far as what we can do with
inheritance and before we start I do
want to note that usually I like to
snazz up for these videos but this video
I just couldn't resist how radiant as a
red looks on camera so good job camera I
hope you enjoy it as much as I do anyway
so we saw last time
then when a class is the hyponym of an
interface we used implements so for
example an S list is a list 61b
and this is an interface in that case we
use the implements keyword and for the
most part what implements means is we're
declaring that we are indeed lists and
we will implement all the methods that
list 61° require right I claimed to be a
list I better be able to give someone
add operation to remove operations and
so forth and maybe along the way I'll
pick up a couple default methods from
the interface so in the list 61b case we
had a print method but mostly it's about
interface inheritance in this little
section here we're gonna see how the
extends keyword is a powerful tool for
doing a really aggressive implementation
inheritance so in particular suppose I
have a class like rotating s list and I
want it to be an S list in the sense
that it does s less stuff but I don't
want it to be exactly the same thing in
this case what it like is a new method
rotate right that takes an existing
route list and it rotates as it rotates
every item around so if I have 5 9 15 15
will move over 9 over 5 will move over
and 22 will wrap back to the front gym
so it will be an S list but the extends
keyword will allow us to add additional
methods and keep all the originals so
let's try it out here we have a rotating
s last class and we see it does not
compile in particular if we highlight
one of these it says I don't have it add
last method now here the answer is
simple the reason why that's happening
is that while you and I both know that a
rotating s list is supposed to be an S
list we haven't told Java that's where
this new keyword extends come in
so I do extends s list item and now I
have rotating s list
mostly compiling what's missing is the
rotate right method which I'll now right
and it's just public void rotate right
and a little comment here rotates list
to the right almost got it
can you spell check in this right
rotates not perfect okay so now we got
to rotate right and we figure how do we
actually rotate a list okay well that
means deleting the last item basically
I'm just thinking of the front that's
one way to do it the easiest way so I
could just say item x equals remove last
and the way that this s list class knows
how to do it by rotating s list knows
how to do it it extends s list so when I
call this remove last method it
basically goes and calls the one inside
of this file which is right here
so back to s rotating s list we then say
add first X and at this point now we now
have rotating s list so if we run this
actually we see it compiles first of all
and now if we run it hopefully we get
the answer we want which should be 13 10
11 12 and indeed it is so that's the
most basic kind of extends now because
of the extents keyword what we get is
that this new rotating s list class
inherits all the members of s list
what's a member well that's all the
instance and static variables whatever
it may have all the methods and any
nested class however there's sort of a
funny thing which is if I use if I
declare one of these s list properties
here private then rotating s list won't
be able to use it but we'll see that
after the midterm constructors by
contrast are not inherited and we'll
play around with what that means later
in this lecture